So if we shorten this up a little bit,
it's going to look like this first of all
think about the relevance because most of
your stylesheet isn't going to apply
to the thing you're trying to analyze.
Then we want to look at origin and
importance.
Where's it coming from?
Does it have a bank important after it?
We want to take a look at the specificity
and analyze that, that would be
calculating those numbers that's going to
help tell us which one is most specific.
And then, the last one is the order
of appearance that applies when
the specificity is equal.
Okay, so here's a few little odd
wrinkles as we think about this,
the cascade algorithm is applied,
but for the specificity algorithm.
So if we look at early in
the process of the cascade, and
we have two styles here,
the Browser stylesheet,
let's say it has root,
which of course is a pseudo class h1.
And the Author stylesheet says h1 and
we have two different styles here for
the border,
which one of these is going to win?
Well, even though the browser stylesheet
has a more specific selector,
the author style sheet wins
because in terms of the Cascade
the browser style sheet comes
before the author style sheet.
At a normal level of importance, so
all that probably looks odd to you but
it is the way that this will work.
So if we ignore layers for the moment and
I, We'll be coming back to those,
let's look at exactly how this
cascade is going to work.
So the least important
things show up at the top.
The most important ones
show at the bottom.
We start with the styles that come
from the user agent or the browser.
Those styles that come with
your browser are applied first,
the user may override those
styles with their own stylesheet.
And you as the author or the developer
will override the user styles.
That sounds a little bit odd.
But wait until we get to the end.
So we as the author will override
anything that the user wants.
The next thing that happens are,
animations in CSS,
that have @key frame associated with them.
So this is the true kinds of animation,
not transitions which
are analyzed differently.
Why would we be putting
our animations here?
Is a great question.
The reason why is, we don't want
the cascade specificity and so
forth get in the way of an animation that
is executing as things are changing,
and then animation is happening.
We wanna be sure that, that animation
is gonna beat anything else that
might be there in
the author stylesheet that,
that encounters as it moves
through space and time.
Then we have the Mirror Universe.
Okay, so we have all of our
regular normal importance ones,
the important ones go the opposite order.
So, the author styles even
though in normal importance,
they are almost the most important ones.
They are the least important ones.
When we start putting
bang important on things.
The user can override the author styles if
they start putting bang important on it.
So when you take a look
at a user stylesheet for
somebody who has visual issues.
You will find that it is full of Bang
important, because they wanna override
things that are coming from
the web developers stylesheets,
even if they have been
important on them already.
Notice that close to the bottom here,
the most important one is the user agent,
the browser with an important style on it.
So if that browser stylesheet
has a bank important on it,
you will find it next to
impossible to override it.
The only thing that overrides all
of those are CSS transitions,
you may be familiar with the CSS
transition property that does things like
rotating things moves in space and
so forth.
And those are the most important again for
the same reason as the animations as
we move things through time and space,
we wanna be sure that we don't
see weird artifacts happening.
As the transition or
the animation is executed, and so
that's why these get higher importance,
and cascade.
Okay, so in summary then as you
look at that great big huge table,
here's what you need to remember.
The animations have more importance to
them than anything with a normal value,
whether that's a user,
author, or user agent style,
animations will beat
anything with normal values.
Bang important beats the animations.
And transitions beat bang important.
That's kind of that summary in a nukshell,
if you can remember those things
you'll probably remember most of the way
that, that cascade happens to work.